Now that we have our database configured and populated, it's time to set
up our service layer. Before we do this, it's important to understand
the two main data-handling "artifacts" provided by the Grails framework.

1.  *Controllers*: Grails is a MVC framework, where "C" stands for
Controller. In an MVC app, controllers define the logic of the web
application, and manage the communication between the model and the
view. Controllers respond to _requests_, interact with data from the
model, and then _respond_ with either a view (HTML page) or some other
consumable format (such as JSON). Controllers are Groovy classes located
in `grails-app/controllers`
2.  *Services*: Many times we need to do more with our data than simply
take a request and return a response. Real-world apps typically include
a substantial amount of code dedicated to "business logic". Grails
supports "services" which are classes that have full access to the
model, but are not tied to a request. Controllers, as well as other
parts of your app, can call services (which are made available via
Springâ€™s dependency injection) to get back the data they need to respond
to their requests. Services are Groovy classes located in
`grails-app/services` and can be injected by name into other Grails
artifacts.

To implement our RESTful API in our app, we'll use controllers to
respond to API requests (POST, GET, PUT, DELETE), and services to handle
our "business logic" (which is pretty simple in our case). Let's start
with a controller:

The React app consumes several endpoints.



